( suspenseful theme playing )
Ten months ago, the crew
of the Voyager was pulled
NARRATOR:
entity known as the caretaker.
into the Delta Quadrant by an
Not enough time!
best chance of getting home
When he died, Voyager's
died with him, but he revealed
one hopeful possibility.
There is another like me.
CARETAKER:
She left hundreds of years ago,
but she's out there, somewhere.
( gentle theme playing )
to the impressions around you.
Open yourself
TUVOK:
The thoughts, the minds
that are on this ship.
( voices murmuring )
What do you hear?
Voices.
So many voices.
you are sensing
I believe
the thoughts of various
crew members on board.
What should I do?
See if you can isolate
one of the voices.
listening to a symphony
Imagine you are
on a single instrument.
and focusing
It's working.
your emotional equanimity.
Try to maintain
You should not be concerned
with success or failure.
taking off too much.
Uh-oh. He's
NEELIX:
millimeters off the top.
I told him just a few
Way too much now.
Don't touch the sideburns.
It's Neelix!
I can hear Neelix's thoughts.
That is not unexpected.
You have an emotional
attachment to him
drawn your focus.
which may have
My scalp itches.
NEELIX:
about that shampoo of his.
Maybe I should tell him
I think he's getting a haircut.
Oh, no! He's trimming
the ear hairs.
I told him the ear hairs
were the perfect length.
Not the ear hairs!
( laughing )
If you are to succeed
your telepathic abilities,
in honing
these emotional outbursts.
you must learn to control
Outburst?
It was a giggle.
will teach you
Tomorrow I
a Vulcan mind-control
technique
inhibit your giggles.
that will help you
( sighs )
Thanks, Tuvok.
You may go.
( majestic theme playing )
You're late.
with Lieutenant Tuvok
Sorry. My lesson
went a little long today.
and the day before.
Today, yesterday
You'd think a Vulcan would be
more attuned to punctuality.
I'll try to keep
a closer eye
from now on.
on the time
school today?
So, how was
with a sensory focus exercise,
Wonderful. Tuvok helped me
my precognitive skills
we worked on
and I learned how to self-induce
a hypergogic mental state.
Sounds stimulating.
excellent progress.
He says I'm making
I had no doubt that you would
but I'd appreciate it
if you wouldn't let
these.. mind studies
interfere with your...
( high-pitched tone shrilling )
What's that?
I don't know.
( mysterious theme playing )
( shrilling stops )
( majestic theme playing )
( beeping )
Life-signs?
Apparently so.
But before I could
analyze them,
the life-signs
simply ceased.
on all biospectral frequencies.
I'm scanning the remains
It's completely inert. Dead.
Somehow, I find it
hard to believe
this rock suddenly came to life
for several seconds.
I concur. However,
dead or alive,
these are the remains
of an alien entity
we never fully
understood.
It may be prudent
to place it on
a level three biohazard
containment field.
Agreed, but first I want
to take a look at--
( shrilling )
I'm picking up life-signs.
They're sporocystian.
a sporocystian life-form.
The caretaker was
to my readings,
But according
the life-signs aren't coming
from the remains.
The remains are simply
resonating
in response to an external
energy source--
some other life-form.
Where?
Janeway to bridge.
Let's find out.
for a sporocystian life-form.
Mr. Kim, begin scans
Aye, captain. Stand by.
I've got it, captain.
A sporocystian energy burst
10 light years distant.
approximately
But I can't get a precise fix
on its location.
The life-signs are gone.
could be responding
These remains
to the caretaker's mate.
If that's true, maybe we could
use them to track her down.
And if we can find her,
she might have
to send us home.
the ability
( gentle theme playing )
Torres to Janeway.
JANEWAY ( on communicator ):
Go ahead.
a hexi-prismatic field, captain.
We've placed the remains in
The next time it responds
to sporocystian energy,
the field should give us
a heading to the source.
You're using the remains
like a compass.
Exactly.
Keep us apprised.
Good work.
Janeway out.
a being of considerable power.
Captain, the caretaker was
And although his intent
was not hostile,
we were essentially
at his mercy.
I do not care to repeat
that experience.
And if we are about
to meet his mate,
on more even ground.
you'd like it to be
studied the doctor's
Precisely. I have
of the caretaker remains
biochemical analysis
and I believe it is possible to
create a sporocystian toxin--
debilitate the life-form.
something which might
Sounds like a sensible
precaution. Get on it.
( computer beeping )
sporocystian energy.
I'm picking up
to engineering.
Chakotay
We're picking up life-signs.
Is your compass working?
TORRES ( on communicator ):
Stand by.
Activate the field.
( suspenseful theme playing )
I can't get a bearing
on the source.
the spatial resolution.
Try increasing
Spatial resolution at maximum.
The life-signs are fading,
and I still can't get
on the coordinates.
a lock
Boosting the signal gain.
We've got it, captain.
Bearing 2-7-2 mark 1-9.
Acknowledged.
and engage at maximum warp.
Mr. Paris, set a course
Aye, captain.
PARIS:
( majestic theme playing )
Captain, we're picking up
an artificial structure
on long range sensors.
a space station of some kind.
It appears to be
and put it on screen.
Slow to impulse
That looks a lot like
the caretaker's array.
Configuration is similar.
So is the surface composition,
but it's only about
one-tenth the size.
Are there any sporocystian
life-forms on board?
2,000 carbon-based life-forms.
No, but I am picking up over
They appear to be...
KIM:
wait a second.
Confirming.
Captain.
They're Ocampa.
We're approaching the station,
captain.
All stop.
Hail them, Mr. Tuvok.
No response.
I am reading an energy surge
from the station--
possibly weapons.
Shields.
( suspenseful theme playing )
Definitely weapons.
Shields are holding.
Incoming message
from the array.
Let's hear it.
You're not wanted here.
We pose no threat to you.
I'm Captain Kathryn
Janeway of the--
You have been warned.
( suspenseful theme swells )
( majestic theme playing )
They are Ocampa?
That's right. There appears
to be an entire colony.
And, according
to our sensors,
at least 300 years old.
the station is
any Ocampa history
Kes, is there
about people who
left your planet
by aliens and taken away?
or were captured
No.
there could be Ocampa
The idea that
on the homeworld
anywhere but
is something no one
ever considered.
I thought I was
the only one.
Since you're definitely
the only one on Voyager,
as an intermediary.
I want you to act
Gladly. What should I do?
to arrange a meeting.
The first step is
Let's see if we can
get that far.
Hail the array.
tiresome, captain.
This is becoming
further aggressive action--
If you force us to take
who wishes to speak with you.
I have someone here
My name is Kes.
I'm an Ocampa.
This is some kind of trick.
it's not a trick.
I assure you
What would an Ocampa be doing
on an alien starship?
It's a long story.
what an Ocampa is doing
But I'd like to know
on an alien space station.
That is also a long story.
Then I suggest we meet
and tell each other
our stories.
May we come aboard
your station?
No, but I am willing
to come to your ship.
( majestic theme playing )
Our readings identified
a sporocystian life-form
in this area.
that life-form for months.
We've been looking for
Why? To destroy it?
No.
On the contrary, we believe
it has the technology
that could send us home.
of how your ship is regarded?
Captain, are you aware
That when Voyager appears,
people fear destruction?
as a ship of death.
Your ship is known
What?
quite a reputation.
You've established
You killed the caretaker
declared war on the Kazon,
raided planets for their
resources.
None of that is true.
We've never attacked anyone
except in self-defense.
kill the caretaker.
And we did not
He died of natural causes.
try to understand.
Mr. Tanis, please
We only want to find
the entity we've
been looking for.
I want to talk to you alone.
TANIS:
Our sensors tell us she's
somewhere in this region.
JANEWAY:
Can you help us
find her?
Captain, I'd like to speak
to Tanis alone if I may.
Very well.
Why should I believe
any of this?
These are kind people, Tanis.
at great risk to themselves
They saved my life
when they didn't have to.
They wouldn't lie to you.
are hardly what I expected.
I will admit, these people
was finding you here, Kes.
But more unexpected
left the homeworld so recently.
I had no idea any Ocampa had
I have about a thousand
questions to ask you.
I know. And I'm going to
try to answer them.
you spend your time?
Is this where
in this room? No.
You mean
This is where the bridge
officers usually meet.
I want to see where you live.
I want to see the place
that is special to you.
You did all this?
I had a little help,
but, yes, most of it
is my work.
Well, you've done well--
bringing something
so beautiful
into a place so sterile.
Sterile. Voyager?
around you, Kes.
Ha. Look
and barren place.
This is a cold
150 people on board.
There are over
call that barren.
I'd hardly
There are people,
but there's so little life.
to see you in this place.
Part of me weeps
You're so isolated.
Corridors, bulkheads...
from the world around you.
all cutting you off
a space station.
You live on
any different?
How is it
it's very different.
I assure you,
You're very young,
aren't you?
Two years.
Would it surprise you to know
that I'm 14 years old?
( laughs )
That's not possible.
only lived to be nine.
The oldest Ocampa
about your own people.
You know so little
to learn about yourself...
There's so much for you
about the galaxy.
Being here on this ship
is holding you back.
are helping me.
These people
I'm a member of the crew.
( laughs )
I suppose we were
like you once--
innocent, naive.
But when Suspiria brought
us here 300 years ago,
she began to teach us
how to become stronger
than we ever could have
on the homeworld.
Suspiria...is that
your caretaker?
We don't think of her
as a caretaker.
Her species is actually
called the Nacene.
Then you do know her.
Where is she?
Nearby.
from the entity you knew.
But she's so different
in maintaining the status quo.
He was only interested
He kept our people
servile and weak.
Suspiria taught us to develop
our psychokinetic skills
that had lain dormant
for so long.
We have abilities far beyond
anything you can imagine.
Like what?
( rustling )
( laughs )
We can enhance life.
TANIS:
the beginning, Kes.
And that's only
( tender theme playing )
return to the station.
I have to
We'll talk again.
Sounds like you've established
a dialogue with Tanis.
It's an excellent beginning.
Good work.
Thank you, captain.
Kes.
Is there something wrong?
Not exactly.
I'm just a little overwhelmed.
my people had the potential
I always believed that
to be more than
what they were--
could be somehow heightened,
that our mental abilities
who's realized that potential,
and now I've met someone
to be excited or frightened.
and I don't know whether
A non-emotional response
would be more useful.
But since you're
not a Vulcan,
of the two emotions
I say a mixture
would be appropriate.
It's an exciting moment, Kes,
and I'm very happy for you.
But just remember,
we know very little
about these Ocampa.
in your dealings with Tanis.
Be cautious
I will.
a good feeling about him.
But I just have
( majestic theme playing )
I've met with the Ocampa girl.
TANIS:
She has potential.
I don't care about the girl.
WOMAN:
Bring me the ship.
She's yours.
( suspenseful theme swells )
( Neelix laughs )
This is delicious!
Mr. Tanis, is it true
you're 14 years old?
Yes. That's quite common
with my people here.
develop a technology
Suspiria helped us
the Ocampa life-span
to extend
three generations ago.
My father lived
to be 20 years.
Would that technology
work for Kes?
Possibly.
Where does Suspiria live?
On another array?
corporeal as that.
Oh, nothing so
sporocystian energy.
She exists as pure
She only assumes
physical form
communicate with her.
when we need to
our space-time continuum?
Does she occupy
I don't know.
All I know is, when we
need her, she comes.
to the meeting place.
I'll take you
I'm sure all your questions
will be answered then.
meeting her, Kes,
You'll enjoy
as well as the other
Ocampa here.
I'd love to visit the station.
Visit? Why not stay with us?
Yes. I think you could
Stay?
learn a lot from us,
we from you.
We haven't been in contact
with the Ocampa homeworld
for hundreds of years.
We'd be fascinated to hear
about our distant cousins.
That sounds wonderful,
but, uh--
don't have to decide
Kes, you certainly
something this important
right now.
Give it some thought.
She's absolutely right.
There's no rush.
I appreciate that.
about your mental abilities.
I am curious
They're so much greater
than mine.
your own potential, Kes.
Do not underestimate
Your mental abilities
are rapidly maturing.
I might be able
to help you.
No offense to Mr. Tuvok,
but I am more familiar
with the Ocampa mind.
I would appreciate any insight
you could give me.
Maybe later this evening.
Oh, good.
It is a highly reactive
sporocystian toxin.
I ran a micro-cellular analysis
of the caretaker's remains,
a critical enzyme
and discovered
in his cellular structure.
in this cylinder
The energy
is formulated to break
down that enzyme.
temporary paralysis.
It would result in
Mr. Tanis says
she's harmless.
It is my hope that we
only have to use it
as a precautionary measure.
Very well. Proceed.
visualize your hand.
In your mind,
Now reach out with that hand
and grab the teacup.
Reach out with the fingers
of your mind.
Grasp it.
Do you have it?
I can feel the handle
and the texture of the metal,
but I can't move it.
Don't try to move it.
Just take a drink from it.
( mysterious theme playing )
( gasping )
See? You can do it.
I didn't try to move it.
I don't understand.
No. You just tried to drink
from it.
if you wanted to take a drink?
And what would you do
I'd reach out and pick it up.
That's right.
But you wouldn't be thinking
about picking it up.
You'd simply do it.
you just learned.
And that's what
Focus on the goal, not the task.
When you wanted the tea,
it came to you.
Uh, excuse me...
we're not finished.
I know you're tired.
But I want you to try
one more thing.
It's cold.
Wouldn't it taste better
if it were hot?
See past the liquid.
Not with your eyes,
with your mind.
What your eyes
show you
is only the surface
of reality.
Look deeper.
There is no liquid,
there is no cup.
There's only a collection
of molecules and atoms,
moving, vibrating...
They're barely moving.
I see them.
That's because they're cold.
How would you heat them up?
With...a fire.
That's right.
With the fire of your mind.
How do I do that?
Focus on the goal,
not the task.
Don't think about creating
the fire, just use it.
( mysterious theme playing )
I see it now. It's so simple.
That's right.
But that's enough for tonight.
Tomorrow, I'll take you
to the next level.
Until then, good night.
May I say something now?
Of course, Neelix.
( panting )
I'm so proud of you.
I knew you could do it.
beginning for you, Kes.
This is a whole new
I know. I know.
What if I did go?
Go?
To the Ocampa array.
with Tanis and the others...
If I decided to live
would you go with me?
I'd go anywhere with you.
( majestic theme playing )
Captain's log, supplemental.
JANEWAY:
We've arrived at what Tanis
calls the meeting place--
where Suspiria exists.
the region of space
Nothing on sensors, captain.
your communications equipment?
Captain, may I access
Of course.
( computer beeping )
a subspace carrier wave.
I've sent out
within the next 47 hours.
Suspiria should respond
I'll be in my quarters.
We'll let you know when she
makes her appearance.
That won't be necessary.
I'll know when she's here.
( majestic theme playing )
Tanis has shown me
the next level.
manipulation of matter.
The pyschokinetic
someone's whose mental abilities
That is a large step for
are still undisciplined.
Nevertheless, I am intrigued.
Please.
May I?
He showed me how to use
the fire in my mind.
( mysterious theme playing )
Fascinating.
However, I would advise caution
in exploring this ability.
Until you have mastered the...
( tense theme playing )
I have to stop the fire!
How do I stop the fire?
can you tell me what to do?
Tuvok. Tuvok,
Tuvok?
( groaning )
( screams )
( screaming )
Lieutenant, can you hear me?
Doctor:
What happened?
through hyper-thermal induction.
Your cell membranes went
The temperature
of your blood
in a matter of seconds.
rose by 37 degrees
and I resuscitated you.
You were in shock,
I'm restricting you
to light duty
for the next three days.
Try and get some rest.
necessary, Doctor.
That will not be
My Vulcan healing techniques
do not require
an extended period
of convalescence.
the worst patients.
Vulcans make
Fine, but if you're feeling
any nausea or dizziness,
to report to sick bay at once.
I'm expecting you
Of course.
Tuvok, I'm so sorry.
You are probably feeling
remorse, possibly guilt.
the emotion known as
I advise you to look
on this incident
as a learning experience.
It's not that easy.
I almost killed you.
That is correct,
but you did not.
Try to remember that.
I will see you tomorrow
at 1500 hours,
continue your training.
assuming you wish to
You still want to teach me?
If this experience
proves anything,
further instruction,
it is that you need
continuing as your instructor.
and I would regret not
Thanks, Tuvok.
( majestic theme playing )
How's the Vulcan?
TANIS:
Is he going to recover?
You heard?
KES:
I was aware of what happened.
In a manner of speaking.
He's going to be all right,
no thanks to me.
Tanis, I've been thinking--
if I'm ready for this.
I don't know
What's wrong?
TANIS:
If I can't control my abilities,
there might be another accident.
I'm afraid it isn't going
to get any easier, Kes.
You're already starting
to manifest abilities
you've ever imagined.
far beyond anything
the other beings on this ship
Soon you'll be so far beyond
that you'll look at them
as they look at...pets.
They're not pets.
They're my friends.
They're people.
And I'm sure you care
for them very much.
they're wonderful people.
I'm sure
that way to me, but...
They certainly seem
it's time that you began
to accept how different
you are from them.
The people on this ship--
they live their lives
trapped inside their
primitive skulls,
depending on flesh and bone
the universe is like.
to tell them what
They don't know what it is
to see beyond the physical.
Touch it.
know their universe.
This is how they
They touch the flower,
the nerve impulses
travel up their arm
to the brain
and in their mind, they sense
the moisture of the petals,
the sharpness of the thorns,
the texture of the leaves,
and they think they know
what it feels like,
but they don't.
Now touch it.
Reach out with
your thoughts.
the very first time.
Feel it...for
Think of nothing
but the flower.
It's the only object
in the universe.
Know it.
only an Ocampa can.
Know it in a way
( suspenseful theme playing )
Can you see it?
Yes.
It's more than seeing.
It's more than touching.
I know this flower.
You can do more.
Reach out.
Feel all the life
in this room.
( mysterious theme playing )
Yes, I can feel it.
I know them all.
They're so beautiful.
It can be more beautiful.
Bring the fire.
( panting )
( gentle theme playing )
How did it feel?
They're dead.
They're all dead.
Amazing.
You felt life.
You embraced its essence
with your mind,
and then you transformed it.
like it in the universe.
There's nothing else
I killed those plants...
just like I almost
killed Tuvok.
But I don't want
to hurt anybody.
Of course you don't.
That's not the point.
Hurt people, help them,
give life, kill.
It's all the same.
Once you see beyond
the physical,
you see the universe
as it truly is.
Now you know why you can't stay
with these people.
to come with me.
Why you have
Come back to the station.
We'll care for you.
We'll train you.
Oh, I don't know.
( laughs )
( sighs )
I still need some more time
to think about it.
Take all the time you want.
But when you meet Suspiria,
I think you'll decide
to join us.
Why?
Because Suspiria is your future.
and we're a part of her.
She's part of us,
are connected in a way
All the Ocampa here
that can't be put into words.
your abilities far enough,
And if you develop
Suspiria will invite you
to go with her to Exosia.
Exosia?
A place the humanoids
on this ship call
a place of pure thought,
"A subspace layer,"
a place of the mind.
pure energy,
Think about it, Kes.
Suspiria will embrace you.
When you're ready,
Good night.
( suspenseful theme playing )
( majestic theme playing )
Torres to bridge.
The caretaker's remains
are resonating again.
to a sporocystian life-form.
It's definitely reacting
And from what I can tell,
that life-form is right
on top of us.
Acknowledged.
rupture forming directly ahead.
Captain, there's a subspace
Yellow alert. Janeway to Tanis.
Will you please come
to the bridge?
I believe we've made contact
with Suspiria.
TANIS ( on communicator ):
I know. I'm on my way.
a bio-spectral analysis.
I think we should run
Some of these readings
are pretty strange.
that subspace rupture out there.
And get me the sensor logs on
strange readings in engineering.
Captain, I'm picking up some
energy field is forming.
Some kind of plasmatic
Janeway to Torres. We're picking
up some odd plasmatic readings
Can you confirm?
down there.
Janeway to Torres.
in main engineering.
Security, meet me
MAN ( on communicator ):
Aye, sir.
( suspenseful theme playing )
It's time to go.
Go...where?
Back to the Ocampa station.
Everyone's waiting for you, Kes.
The connection has been made.
You're part of us now.
Your future has
already begun.
( suspenseful theme playing )
Tuvok to bridge.
JANEWAY ( on communicator ):
Go ahead.
I believe the female
caretaker is here.
you have the bridge.
Commander,
the connection?
Can't you feel
TANIS:
are calling to you.
Your people
Listen to them.
Yes.
I can hear them.
All of them.
And can you hear
Suspiria?
Tuvok?
( soft crying )
Who are you?
Suspiria.
I've been looking forward
to meeting you.
Why?
Because I had the opportunity
to talk to your companion
before he died.
Yes, I know.
I can feel her presence.
She's powerful.
Turbulent.
She's upset.
( gasping )
She's angry!
Kes.
She wants to destroy the ship!
Kes, listen to me.
There's nothing to worry about.
Am I interrupting?
He told us that you were curious
and went off to explore
the galaxy.
We're explorers too.
this quadrant against our will.
But your friend brought us to
And we haven't been able
to find a way back.
Is that why you killed him?
We didn't kill him.
You destroyed the array.
And you took his remains.
I assure you--
No!
( adult voice ):
You killed him.
And now, I will kill you.
( dramatic theme playing )
( grunting )
Now you will know what frail,
small creatures you truly are.
( groaning )
( computer beeps )
What's going on?
I don't know.
It's like the entire molecular
structure of the ship
is coming apart.
Red alert.
Bridge to Janeway.
to Janeway.
Bridge
( rumbling )
We're losing hull integrity.
to structural reinforcement.
Increase power
Aye, sir.
KIM:
Forget these people.
You're beyond them.
No.
Leave her alone, Tanis.
Remember how you felt
in the airponics bay?
( gasping )
in your entire life, have you?
You've never felt that way
Get away from me.
the beginning, Kes.
That was only
I said leave her alone!
( grunts )
Neelix!
Leave him, Kes.
Leave him.
compared to you.
He's nothing
Nothing!
You have to trust.
( both gasping )
( dramatic theme playing )
( grunting )
( grunts )
Oh, Neelix.
Suspiria.
( all grunting )
( screams )
( calmer theme playing )
So, now you kill me
as you did my mate.
we didn't kill him.
No. I told you
Please try to understand.
We don't want to hurt you.
We don't want to hurt anyone.
We just want to get home.
Tuvok, release the force-field.
Captain.
Do it.
( computer beeps )
after what I did to you?
You'd show me mercy
Yes, I would.
( groaning )
Take me with you...please.
It appears she has descended
into subspace.
Can you track her position?
Negative. The rupture
has been sealed.
She is gone, captain.
Captain's log, supplemental.
JANEWAY:
back to the Alpha Quadrant.
We've resumed our course
But the female caretaker
is still out there
with the power to send us home.
And I will use all my power
to find her
and convince her
to do just that.
I looked at the tea,
and I tried to make it boil,
but nothing happened.
Without Tanis' help,
I just can't do it.
Nevertheless,
your psychokinetic abilities
are still part of you.
They might resurface one day.
see that part of myself again.
To be honest, I never want to
are you referring?
To which part
To the part of me
destroying those plants
that got pleasure from
in the airponics bay.
To the part of me that was
tempted to go with Tanis.
I never realized I had
such dark impulses.
Without the darkness,
recognize the light?
how would we
your negative thoughts.
Do not fear
They are part of you.
They are a part of every living
being. Even Vulcans.
You?
The Vulcan heart was forged
out of barbarism and violence.
We learned to control it.
But it is still part of us.
To pretend it does not exist
is to create an opportunity
for it to escape.
Let us begin.
( majestic theme playing )
Open yourself
to the impressions
around you.
The thoughts, the minds
that are on this ship.
( majestic theme playing )